6.0 English From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 minute English from BBCLearningEnglish, I'm Neil
And I'm Pippa
Whatever you think of social media, in less than a generation it has changed the internet
Facebook, Twitter, now known as X, and in the early days, my space
used to be places to post messages to friends or share photos of your breakfast
But with the rise of AI, the fun of connecting with friends changed into something much stranger
As Tristan and Asma present us a BBC World Service program, the global story found out
Oh, what is this?
I think it's a man who's supposed to look like Jesus
Someone who looks like a dog
He's been AI, right?
Has to be AI
He's holding his dog and his face looks like his dog, so he's half Jesus, half dog
A half dog, half Jesus photo, is generated by AI and posted online
It's an example of how the use of AI in social media has evolved so much that today
It's hard to know what's created by humans and what's not
In this episode, we'll discuss how social media is changing in the age of AI
And as usual, we'll learn some useful new words and phrases
And remember, you'll find all the vocabulary along with a transcript on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
But first, I have a question for you, Pipper
You mentioned my space as one of the earlier social media platforms
But the first electronic message was actually sent much earlier in 1844
Using a series of dots and dashes taps out by hand on a telegraph wire
So, what was this new form of communication called?
Was it A?
Semaphore, B, Dial-Up, or C, Morse Code
I think Morse Code
Okay, we'll find out the answer later
The introduction of AI has turned some users away from social media
Indeed, a recent report found that social media activity peaked in 2022
And has been going down ever since
Millennial and digital native Kyle Chaker is a writer specialising in social media
I spoke about the problem to Tristan Redmond for BBC World Service programme, The Global Story
Okay, Carl, was there a moment for you when you felt like social media changed?
I mean, in 2015, 2016, I think, in the United States
When Twitter became the hub of election discourse
It kind of shattered the illusion that the internet was a space you could go to
Just like have fun and express yourself and find cool friends and discuss the way this cultural
Happening
Kyle uses the informal expression O man, an exclamation showing excitement or enthusiasm
He remembers the internet in 2016 when Twitter was full of angry political debate about the US elections
For Kyle, this shattered the illusion that the internet was fun
If something shatters your illusions, it destroys a false belief you hold, making you realise an unpleasant truth
Kyle thinks social media was friendly, and online space to make friends have fun
And discuss the latest cultural happenings
A cultural happening is an event that embodies the values and interests of a particular group at a particular time in history
For example, the hit television show, Game of Thrones, was a cultural happening for Millennials in the 2010s
So what's the future of social media?
Will the amount of AI generated content continue to grow?
Here's Kyle Chaker again, sharing his thoughts with BBC World Services, the global story
We see the large social networks and the tech behemoths leaning in to generated content
And I think users don't actually want that, I think it's a novelty for now
And people will drift away from it
So instead, I see people gravitating towards smaller online spaces
Connecting more closely with individual voices like creator types
And just posting less in general
Kyle thinks the tech behemoths, meaning large and powerful companies will continue pushing AI
However, many people won't content which is more personal and meaningful
They think AI is a novelty, something which is new and unusual and therefore exciting
But which probably weren't last
Instead, Kyle thinks people will gravitate towards smaller online communities
If you gravitate towards something, you are naturally drawn or attracted to it
Social media has changed fast and is still in motion
It's come a long way from the first electronic messages of 1844
Which you mentioned in your question, Neil
So did I get the correct answer?
I asked what this new form of communication was
And you said that it was C, Morse code and that, Pippa is the correct answer
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned starting with the exclamation
Oh man, used to show excitement or enthusiasm
To shatter an illusion is to destroy someone's misconceptions
Causing them to realise an unpleasant reality
A cultural happening is an event that embodies the values and interests of a particular
Social group at a particular time
A behemoth is an extremely large and powerful company or organisation
A novelty is something which is new and unusual and therefore exciting
And finally, if you gravitate towards something, you are naturally attracted to it
Once again, our six minutes are up
But if you're still using the internet, head over to our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Or you'll find a worksheet and quiz for this episode
See you again soon, but for now, it's goodbye
Bye